
[1] Read Details

By RJ Kraft Garage 56

CONCORD, N.C. - Race day has arrived for the 24 Hours of Le Mans in France.
It has been about 15 months since Hendrick Motorsports' collaboration with
NASCAR, Chevrolet, IMSA and Goodyear was announced in fielding an entry in
the
100th running of the 24 Hours of Le Mans.

Fans can watch the 100th running of the 24 Hours of Le Mans right now on
MotorTrend TV/MotorTrend+. The race got underway on Saturday, June 10, at 10
a.m. ET and will run until Sunday, June 11, at 10 a.m. ET. PHOTOS: The sights
of the 24 Hours of Le Mans | Scenes leading up to race day

All week, the driver lineup of Jenson Button, Jimmie Johnson and Mike
Rockenfeller have been putting the No. 24 Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 through its
paces at the 8.5-mile Circuit de la Sarthe. The roster is quite decorated
with
significant accomplishments: Rockenfeller is a two-time Le Mans winner,
Johnson is a seven-time NASCAR Cup Series champion (with Hendrick
Motorsports), Button is a Formula One champion and backup driver/coach Jordan
Taylor is a four-time IMSA champion. Hendrick Motorsports vice president of
competition and seven-time championship-winning crew chief Chad Knaus is
overseeing the project with former Cup Series crew chief Greg Ives managing
the race. Below are live updates from France and the 24 Hours of Le Mans.

RELATED: Garage 56 entry goes through final prep ahead of 24 Hours of Le Mans

RACE UPDATES OVER THE 24 HOURS: Update No. 11 (8:24 a.m. ET/2:24 p.m. in
France): Johnson has taken over for Rockenfeller and will drive the car for
the rest of the race -- the final 96 minutes. Update No. 10 (7:37 a.m.
ET/1:37
p.m. in France): Repairs have been completed and Rockenfeller is back on
track
to shake the car down for a couple of laps. Update No. 9 (6:33 a.m. ET/12:33
p.m. in France): On lap 254, Button brought the No. 24 Chevrolet Camaro ZL1
to
the garage after an issue developed. "We have a drive line issue and the team
is working to repair it now," Knaus said. "The goal remains to finish the
race." Update No. 8 (5:07 a.m. ET/11:07 a.m. in France): The No. 24 Chevrolet
Camaro ZL1 has crossed the 2,000 miles run mark in the 24 Hours of Le Mans.
For context, the longest race in the Cup Series is 600 miles with the
Coca-Cola 600 at Charlotte Motor Speedway. The Chevrolet RO7 engine is
perfoming as expected. The team made a brake change. Button is back behind
the
wheel, taking over from Rockenfeller. "It's been a fun race for us," Button
told MotorTrend TV after his stint. "It is new for most of the team doing an
endurance race. We've been trying to play it as safe as we can. ... We're not
competing (with the GTE Am class) but we kind of are."

Update No. 7 (3:18 a.m. ET/9:18 a.m. in France): Rockenfeller is back behind
the wheel for the third time, taking over for Johnson after the seven-time
Cup
Series champion's latest stint. The car is currently running 30th on the
leaderboard (out of 62 cars) and trails only one GTE car.

"At this point the drivers have all settled into a groove – they’ve seen
pretty much every condition on track they could have possibly seen and seen
all the traffic they need to see," Taylor said. "So now it’s more of traffic
management and track conditions, which can change a lot here since it’s
basically public roads the rest of the year. There’s a lot of dirty areas, a
lot of buildup of rubber and marbles, so we’re reminding them that staying on
your line in traffic is crucial at this point because if you get pushed wide,
you’ll get junk on your tires and spend five laps trying to clean them up.

"When we saw that we were in the hunt to be leading the GT class is when we
switched from a bit of ‘'let’s just cruise here' to 'alright we can actually
race a lot of these guys.' It feels like even though we’re not fighting them
for a position, it’s kind of nice to have that carrot to chase and a goal to
beat them."

Update No. 6 (12:55 a.m. ET/6:55 a.m. in France): The sun is up in France and
15 hours have just about been completed in the 24 Hours of Le Mans. To this
point, the Hendrick Motorsports pit crew has performed 18 pit stops, changing
all four tires on 17 occasions. The other pit stop was to make an aero
adjustment. See the crew in action in the video below.

"We had the opportunity to do some testing before, so this isn’t their first
rodeo doing this," Evan Kureczka, who is the pit crew development manager at
Hendrick Motorsports said. "We did a roughly 30-hour test in Sebring, so we
have some experience on our side. We’ve been working on making sure these
guys
are hydrated, eat well and actually get a little bit of sleep overnight so
they would be sharp in the morning. I think catching a little bit of sleep
and
taking care of their bodies is going to put is in a pretty good position to
finish the race strong."

Update No. 5 (10:40 p.m. ET/4:40 a.m. in France): Just passed the halfway
mark of the race and near the end of Rockenfeller's second stint in the car,
the crew noticed the air pressure going down on the right rear tire. How was
this caught? Goodyear introduced special technology in the tires for the
Garage 56 Chevy that monitor in real time both tire pressure and temperature.
Rockenfeller came to pit road on lap 142 and was replaced by Button before
the
pit service took place.

"We were monitoring the tire pressure sensors and our engineers happened to
see that the right rear tire was starting to lose some pressure," Hendrick
Motorsports vice president of competition Chad Knaus said. "It was great
timing. They did a great job catching it. The team was able to react and get
it in here and get some new tires put on the car. It was awesome." Update No.
4 (8 p.m. ET/2 a.m. in France): After Button's lengthy stint, Johnson got
behind the wheel for nearly three hours with his time clocking in at two
hours, 52 minutes and seven seconds. While racing at night, he battled
showers
for a brief period. During his time in the No. 24, he was on both rain tires
as well as slicks.

"There was a pop-up shower at the start of the lap and it was just pouring,"
Johnson said. "I came around a corner on slicks and it was just a downpour.
We
brought the car around and put wets on it to really try to understand how the
wets would perform. We probably ran two-to-three too many laps on the wets
and
it really fell apart once the track started to dry. We put the slicks back on
and we were the fastest GT-style car on the track and were running the guys
down.

"We had some unfortunate luck with the safety car that put us down a lap and
we’re trying to get that lap back now. I really think we have a shot at the
GT
overall with this car. So just need to catch the safety car right to put us
back on the lead lap and off we go.

"I tried (to prepare for these conditions) in the sim, but they can’t
simulate rain like it really is. The night time (sim) driving was pretty
useful and worked out well, but the sim is easy because you can’t get hurt.
You just hit reset and you’re back on the track. Real life, real fear, real
consequences make a big difference."

Update No. 3 (3:24 p.m. ET/9:24 p.m. in France): Button is in the midst of an
extended shift behind the wheel. Heavy rain on parts of the course led to a
lengthy stretch behind the safety car. During this stint, Button has pitted
three times. The first was for intermediate tires when the rain began and
then
he came back down for slicks when the precipitation stopped. The team also
made an aero adjustment on the No. 24 Chevrolet Camaro ZL1.

"We were able to do a lot of testing with the vehicle before we got here and
we recognized it was going to rain in June in France, but you never know
where
it’s going to rain or how much it’s going to rain," said Justin Fantozzi, who
is the global race tires operation manager for Goodyear. "The intermediate
tire is really good when it’s starting to dry out or when you only have a
little bit of precipitation, and the wet tire is for when it is going to rain
for awhile."

Update No. 2 (12:51 p.m. ET/6:51 p.m. in France): Johnson completes a 12-lap
stint in the car of just under a hour (58:54 in total). Button takes over for
a planned double stint in the car with Johnson scheduled to follow up with a
double stint of his own. "It was incredible," Johnson said of his first run.
"I had slow zones that took place with two or three big crashes on track. It
was a totally different experience to work through those areas and take back
off. All in all, just an amazing experience. One of the slow zones, it was a
very crowded area with the fans – they were waving at me so I was waving
back.
It was really, really fun. I want every lap I can get." Update No. 1 (11:49
a.m. ET/5:49 p.m. in France): Rockenfeller starts out as the first driver for
the team when the No. 24 Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 rolls off the grid from the
39th
position. The race got underway at 10 a.m. ET/4 p.m. in France. His stint in
the car lasts 14 laps at just under an hour and 15 minutes (one hour, 13
minutes and 13 seconds to be exact). Johnson takes over for the next stint.
"It was a tricky stint with the first chicane down in Mulsanne completely
wet," Rockenfeller said of the initial challenges. "I just tried to make no
mistakes, stay trouble free. It’s a long race so you don’t want to waste it
in
the first lap. The car feels good. Balance-wise we have some issues because
we
thought it was going to rain more, so we adjusted the balance. We will react
to that later in the race and adjust tire pressure. I think the track will
grip up again and I think we can go a bit faster from now on." MORE: Lineup
on
what success looks like | Garage 56 team reflects on road to France

Take a look at the team's first pit stop of the day.

PIT CREW WINS CLASS IN PIT STOP CHALLENGE

Tuesday afternoon saw the pit crew from Hendrick Motorsports take part in the
Pit Stop Challenge and emerge victorious in the GTE class (which is where the
team was classified for this competition only). They performed a NASCAR-style
pit stop in 10.364 seconds and were the only team to use a manual jack. In
the
overall competition, the team placed fifth, just 0.3 seconds behind the top
team.

RELATED: Pit Stop Challenge victory brings lasting memories for Le Mans crew

The Hendrick Motorsports Garage 56 pit crew is made up of Dawson Backus
(front-tire changer), Cody French (front-tire carrier), Jarius Morehead
(rear-tire carrier), Mike Moss (rear-tire changer) and Donovan Williams
(jackman).

PRACTICE DETAILS FROM: Sunday, June 4 | Wednesday, June 7 | Thursday, June 8
ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND ON GARAGE 56 The Garage 56 entry in the endurance race
is a unique case because it is a single-entry class of competition for
innovative cars – there is no other car in the class. Garage 56 was
introduced
in 2012 and allows for creativity without taking away a spot in the
traditional starting grid. Hendrick Motorsports, in collaboration with
NASCAR,
Chevrolet, IMSA and Goodyear, is fielding the No. 24 entry.

The car, a modified version of the Next Gen Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 race car,
was formally unveiled at Daytona International Speedway in February. The
systems and components of the Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 are mostly unchanged from
the car that runs in the Cup Series. However, this car has headlights and
taillights for nighttime racing, a larger fuel cell, carbon brake discs and
Goodyear Eagle race tires that have been specially designed. RELATED: NASCAR
unveils Garage 56 car, full specs and details



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.hendrickmotorsports.com/news/articles/126537/garage-56-live-updates-recap-24-hours-of-le-mans

LICENSE:

=========================================


$
[B:t] Live updates: Garage 56 entry in 24 Hours of Le Mans | Hendrick Motorsports
