
[1] Read Details

===== Extraordinary New Experiences =====

===== A Revolutionary Operating System and User Interface =====

===== Breakthrough Design =====

===== Unrivaled Innovation in Hardware =====

===== Industry-Leading Privacy and Security =====

Text of this article

June 5, 2023

PRESS RELEASE

Introducing Apple Vision Pro: Apple’s first spatial computer

CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA Apple today unveiled Apple Vision Pro, a revolutionary
spatial computer that seamlessly blends digital content with the physical
world, while allowing users to stay present and connected to others. Vision
Pro creates an infinite canvas for apps that scales beyond the boundaries of
a
traditional display and introduces a fully three-dimensional user interface
controlled by the most natural and intuitive inputs possible — a user’s eyes,
hands, and voice. Featuring visionOS, the world’s first spatial operating
system, Vision Pro lets users interact with digital content in a way that
feels like it is physically present in their space. The breakthrough design
of
Vision Pro features an ultra-high-resolution display system that packs 23
million pixels across two displays, and custom Apple silicon in a unique
dual-chip design to ensure every experience feels like it’s taking place in
front of the user’s eyes in real time.

“Today marks the beginning of a new era for computing,” said Tim Cook,
Apple’s CEO. “Just as the Mac introduced us to personal computing, and iPhone
introduced us to mobile computing, Apple Vision Pro introduces us to spatial
computing. Built upon decades of Apple innovation, Vision Pro is years ahead
and unlike anything created before — with a revolutionary new input system
and
thousands of groundbreaking innovations. It unlocks incredible experiences
for
our users and exciting new opportunities for our developers.”

“Creating our first spatial computer required invention across nearly every
facet of the system,” said Mike Rockwell, Apple’s vice president of the
Technology Development Group. “Through a tight integration of hardware and
software, we designed a standalone spatial computer in a compact wearable
form
factor that is the most advanced personal electronics device ever.”

Extraordinary New Experiences

Apple Vision Pro brings a new dimension to powerful, personal computing by
changing the way users interact with their favorite apps, capture and relive
memories, enjoy stunning TV shows and movies, and connect with others in
FaceTime.

An infinite canvas for apps at work and at home: visionOS features a
three-dimensional interface that frees apps from the boundaries of a display
so they can appear side by side at any scale. Apple Vision Pro enables users
to be even more productive, with infinite screen real estate, access to their
favorite apps, and all-new ways to multitask. And with support for Magic
Keyboard and Magic Trackpad, users can set up the perfect workspace or bring
the powerful capabilities of their Mac into Vision Pro wirelessly, creating
an
enormous, private, and portable 4K display with incredibly crisp text.

Engaging entertainment experiences: With two ultra-high-resolution displays,
Apple Vision Pro can transform any space into a personal movie theater with a
screen that feels 100 feet wide and an advanced Spatial Audio system. Users
can watch movies and TV shows, or enjoy stunning three-dimensional movies.
Apple Immersive Video offers 180-degree high-resolution recordings with
Spatial Audio, and users can access an exciting lineup of immersive videos
that transport them to entirely new places.

Spatial computing makes new types of games possible with titles that can span
a spectrum of immersion and bring gamers into all-new worlds. Users can also
play over 100 Apple Arcade games on a screen as large as they want, with
incredible immersive audio and support for popular game controllers.

Immersive Environments: With Environments, a user’s world can grow beyond the
dimensions of a physical room with dynamic, beautiful landscapes that can
help
them focus or reduce clutter in busy spaces. A twist of the Digital Crown
lets
a user control how present or immersed they are in an environment.

Memories come alive: Featuring Apple’s first three-dimensional camera, Apple
Vision Pro lets users capture, relive, and immerse themselves in favorite
memories with Spatial Audio. Every spatial photo and video transports users
back to a moment in time, like a celebration with friends or a special family
gathering. Users can access their entire photo library on iCloud, and view
their photos and videos at a life-size scale with brilliant color and
spectacular detail. Every Panorama shot on iPhone expands and wraps around
the
user, creating the sensation they are standing right where it was taken.

FaceTime becomes spatial: With Apple Vision Pro, FaceTime calls take
advantage of the room around the user, with everyone on the call reflected in
life-size tiles, as well as Spatial Audio, so it sounds as if participants
are
speaking right from where they are positioned. Users wearing Vision Pro
during
a FaceTime call are reflected as a Persona — a digital representation of
themselves created using Apple’s most advanced machine learning techniques —
which reflects face and hand movements in real time. Users can do things
together like watch a movie, browse photos, or collaborate on a presentation.

Even more app experiences: Apple Vision Pro has an all-new App Store where
users can discover apps and content from developers, and access hundreds of
thousands of familiar iPhone and iPad apps that run great and automatically
work with the new input system for Vision Pro. Apple’s developer community
can
go even further and take advantage of the powerful and unique capabilities of
Vision Pro and visionOS to design brand-new app experiences, and reimagine
existing ones for spatial computing.

A Revolutionary Operating System and User Interface

Built on the foundation of decades of engineering innovation in macOS, iOS,
and iPadOS, visionOS was designed from the ground up to support the
low-latency requirements of spatial computing. The result is a revolutionary
operating system that delivers powerful spatial experiences that can take
advantage of the space around the user, unlocking new opportunities at work
and at home.

visionOS features a brand-new three-dimensional interface that makes digital
content look and feel present in a user’s physical world. By responding
dynamically to natural light and casting shadows, it helps the user
understand
scale and distance. To enable user navigation and interaction with spatial
content, Apple Vision Pro introduces an entirely new input system controlled
by a person’s eyes, hands, and voice. Users can browse through apps by simply
looking at them, tapping their fingers to select, flicking their wrist to
scroll, or using voice to dictate.

Apple Vision Pro also features EyeSight, an extraordinary innovation that
helps users stay connected with those around them. When a person approaches
someone wearing Vision Pro, the device feels transparent — letting the user
see them while also displaying the user’s eyes. When a user is immersed in an
environment or using an app, EyeSight gives visual cues to others about what
the user is focused on.

Breakthrough Design

Apple Vision Pro builds on Apple innovation and experience designing
high-performance products like Mac, iPhone, and wearables like Apple Watch,
culminating in the most advanced personal electronics device ever. To achieve
ambitious goals for performance, mobility, and wearability, Apple utilized
the
most advanced materials possible.

Apple Vision Pro has an astonishing amount of technology in a compact design.
A singular piece of three-dimensionally formed and laminated glass is
polished
to create an optical surface that acts as a lens for the wide array of
cameras
and sensors needed to blend the physical world with digital content. The
glass
flows into the custom aluminum alloy frame that gently curves around the
user’s face, while the modular system allows for a tailored fit to
accommodate
a wide range of people. The Light Seal is made of a soft textile, and comes
in
a range of shapes and sizes, flexing to conform to a user’s face for a
precise
fit. Flexible straps ensure audio remains close to the user’s ears, while a
Head Band — available in multiple sizes — is three-dimensionally knitted as a
single piece to provide cushioning, breathability, and stretch.1 The band is
secured with a simple mechanism, making it easy to change to another size or
style of band.

Unrivaled Innovation in Hardware

Apple Vision Pro is designed to deliver phenomenal compute performance in a
compact wearable form factor. Featuring a breakthrough ultra-high-resolution
display system built on top of an Apple silicon chip, Vision Pro uses
micro-OLED technology to pack 23 million pixels into two displays, each the
size of a postage stamp, with wide color and high dynamic range. This
technological breakthrough, combined with custom catadioptric lenses that
enable incredible sharpness and clarity, delivers jaw-dropping experiences.
Users with vision correction needs will use ZEISS Optical Inserts to ensure
visual fidelity and eye tracking accuracy.2

An advanced Spatial Audio system is core to the Apple Vision Pro experience,
creating the feeling that sounds are coming from the environment around the
user and matching the sound to the space. Two individually amplified drivers
inside each audio pod deliver Personalized Spatial Audio based on the user’s
own head and ear geometry.3

In addition to creating a breakthrough display and advanced audio
experiences, the high-performance eye tracking system in Apple Vision Pro
uses
high-speed cameras and a ring of LEDs that project invisible light patterns
onto the user’s eyes for responsive, intuitive input.

These groundbreaking innovations are powered by Apple silicon in a unique
dual-chip design. M2 delivers unparalleled standalone performance, while the
brand-new R1 chip processes input from 12 cameras, five sensors, and six
microphones to ensure that content feels like it is appearing right in front
of the user’s eyes, in real time. R1 streams new images to the displays
within
12 milliseconds — 8x faster than the blink of an eye. Apple Vision Pro is
designed for all-day use when plugged in, and up to two hours of use with its
external, high-performance battery.

Industry-Leading Privacy and Security

Apple Vision Pro is built on a strong foundation of privacy and security, and
keeps users in control of their data.

Optic ID is a new secure authentication system that analyzes a user’s iris
under various invisible LED light exposures, and then compares it to the
enrolled Optic ID data that is protected by the Secure Enclave to instantly
unlock Apple Vision Pro. A user’s Optic ID data is fully encrypted, is not
accessible to apps, and never leaves their device, meaning it is not stored
on
Apple servers.

Where a user looks stays private while navigating Apple Vision Pro, and eye
tracking information is not shared with Apple, third-party apps, or websites.
Additionally, data from the camera and other sensors is processed at the
system level, so individual apps do not need to see a user’s surroundings to
enable spatial experiences. EyeSight also includes a visual indicator that
makes it clear to others when a user is capturing a spatial photo or video.

Pricing and Availability

Apple Vision Pro starts at $3,499 (U.S.), and will be available early next
year on apple.com and at Apple Store locations in the U.S., with more
countries coming later next year. Customers will be able to learn about,
experience, and personalize their fit for Vision Pro at Apple Store
locations.
For more information about Vision Pro, visit apple.com/apple-vision-pro.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2023/06/introducing-apple-vision-pro/

LICENSE: Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Introducing Apple Vision Pro: Apple’s first spatial computer - Apple
