
[1] Read Details

Fraying U.S.-China relations and rising tensions over Taiwan have influential
business leaders such as Elon Musk and Warren Buffett sounding alarms about a
possible invasion – a matter that will likely loom over the 2024 election.

China is already bound to be a major issue in the U.S. campaign as President
Xi Jinping pushes to expand his nation's power. China's policy regarding
Taiwan, the world's leader in the semiconductor industry, could end up making
it an even bigger focus.

The cross-strait strife has already provoked commentary from some top
contenders in the Republican presidential primary race who have stressed the
need to deter a possible Chinese invasion invasion of the island. Taiwan is
also a topic of discussion during this week's Group of Seven meeting in
Japan,
which President Joe Biden is attending.

Xi has made Taiwan "reunification" a focal point of his agenda and Beijing
has ramped up hostilities against the island, putting a spotlight on its
importance to the global economy and conjuring fears of a major international
conflict that could eclipse Russia's devastating war in Ukraine.

"The official policy of China is that Taiwan should be integrated. One does
not need to read between the lines, one can simply read the lines," Tesla CEO
Musk said in an interview Tuesday with CNBC's David Faber.

"So I think there's a certain — there's some inevitability to the situation,"
Musk said, adding that it would be bad for "any company in the world."

Tesla just last month announced plans to open a new factory in Shanghai that
will build "Megapack" batteries.

Musk's remarks came one day after Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway revealed in a
filing that it has completely abandoned its recently acquired stake in Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., once worth more than $4 billion. The world's
largest chipmaker, based in Hsinchu, Taiwan, produces the majority of the
advanced semiconductors used by top tech companies like Apple, Amazon,
Google,
Qualcomm and more.

Buffett said in recent weeks that the geopolitical strife over Taiwan was
"certainly a consideration" in his decision to offload the shares over the
last two fiscal quarters. And in an analyst call earlier this month, Buffett
said that while the company was "marvelous," he had "reevaluated" his
position
"in the light of certain things that were going on."

"I feel better about the capital that we've got deployed in Japan than
Taiwan. And I wish it weren't so, but I think that's a reality," he said.

Meanwhile, Ray Dalio, founder of hedge fund titan Bridgewater Associates, in
late April wrote a lengthy post on LinkedIn warning that the U.S. and China
were on the "brink of war" — though he specified that that could mean a war
of
sanctions rather than military might.

The apparent worries from the three members of Forbes' list of the world's
richest people come "a little late to the party," Longview Global senior
policy analyst Dewardric McNeal said in an interview with CNBC.

"It's frustrating to me," McNeal said. "We've been talking about this for
years, and we've also been trying to warn against being overly dependent on
China as your source for selling products [and] manufacturing products."

He also noted that Berkshire Hathaway still holds stock in BYD, an electric
car maker based in Shenzhen, China. "Quite frankly, it is advantageous for
China to scare investors away from Taiwan and damage or taint that economy,
because that is one of the scenarios [in which] that they could bring Taiwan
to heel without an armed intervention," McNeal said.

Buffett's company has sold more than half the stake in BYD it held as of last
year.

"I don't think an attack is imminent, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't be
using this time to plan," McNeal said. "And what I often see is businesses
sort of talking beyond the point, hoping — hope is not a strategy — that this
won't happen."

===== The U.S. policy on Taiwan =====

U.S. intelligence officials have said Xi is pushing China's military to be
ready to seize Taiwan by 2027. China is "likely preparing for a contingency
to
unify Taiwan with the [People's Republic of China] by force," the Pentagon
said in 2021.

China asserts Taiwan, a self-governing democracy, is part of its territory.
It has pushed to absorb the island under the banner of "one country, two
systems," a status rejected by Taiwan's government in Taipei.

Beijing in recent years has steadily ramped up its pressure over Taiwan on
economic and military fronts. It flexed its might as recently as last month
by
conducting large combat drills near Taiwan, while vowing to crack down on any
hints of Taiwanese independence.

China has not ruled out using force to take control of Taiwan.

Taiwan's recent interactions with the U.S. have provoked aggressive reactions
from China. After then-House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., visited Taipei
last summer, China launched missiles over Taiwan and cut off some diplomatic
channels with the U.S.

A meeting in California last month between Taiwan's president, Tsai Ing-wen,
and current House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., prompted more threats and
fury from Beijing.

Even in a political climate where both major U.S. parties have been critical
of China and wary of its encroaching global influence, leaders have tread
carefully around the volatile subject of Taiwan. The U.S. has officially
recognized a "One China" policy — that Taiwan is a part of the mainland — for
more than four decades, and China has vowed to sever diplomatic ties with
countries that seek official diplomacy with Taiwan.

While Pelosi spoke of America's interest in preserving Taiwan's democracy on
her trip to Taipei, she stressed in a Washington Post op-ed at the time that
her visit "in no way contradicts the long-standing one-China policy."

Biden was seen to break with America's longstanding stance on Taiwan when he
said last year that U.S. forces would defend the island if it was attacked by
China. The White House, however, maintains the U.S. policy on Taiwan is
unchanged.

===== 2024 contenders weigh in =====

Dalio predicted that the brinksmanship between the two superpowers will grow
more aggressive over the next 18 months, in part because the 2024 U.S.
election cycle could usher in a swell of anti-Chinese rhetoric.

There's little doubt that China will a major topic on the campaign trail. At
least three Republicans who are seen as potential presidential candidates —
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin and former United
Nations Ambassador John Bolton — have recently embarked on trips to Asia,
including Taiwan, to meet with allied leaders.

Meanwhile, U.S. lawmakers at every level have produced an array of
legislation seeking to reverse China's growing influence, some of which has
drawn accusations of fearmongering. And some of the potential presidential
contenders have already weighed in with calls to meet Chinese aggression with
strength.

"Xi clearly wants to take Taiwan at some point," DeSantis said in an
interview with Nikkei while in Japan. "He's got a certain time horizon. He
could be emboldened to maybe shorten that horizon. But I think ultimately
what
I think China respects is strength," DeSantis said.

DeSantis had drawn criticism for a previous foray into geopolitics when he
described Russia's war in Ukraine as a "territorial dispute." His views on
U.S. policy toward Taiwan, in contrast, were more vague.

"I think our policy should really be to shape the environment in such a way
that really deters them from doing that," DeSantis said of a potential
Chinese
invasion of Taiwan. "I think if they think the costs are going to outweigh
whatever benefits, then I do think that they would hold off. That should be
our goal."

DeSantis, who is gearing up to formally announce his presidential campaign
next week, is seen as former President Donald Trump's top rival for the
Republican nomination.

Trump said last year that he expected China to invade Taiwan because Beijing
is "seeing that our leaders are incompetent," referring to the Biden
administration.

Former Vice President Mike Pence, who says he will make his own decision
about running for president by next month, said in April that the U.S. should
increase sales of military hardware to Taiwan, "so that the Chinese will have
to count the cost before they make any move against that nation."

In an interview Wednesday on CNBC's "Squawk Box," Pence cited the
cross-strait tensions as an argument against cutting U.S. military spending.

"At a time when China is literally floating a new battleship every month and
continuing military provocations across the Asia-Pacific and Russia's waging
an unprovoked war in Eastern Europe, the last thing we ought to be doing is
cutting defense spending," he said.

Former United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley, who launched her presidential
campaign in February, said in a statement to CNBC, "American resolve matters
to China."

"They are watching what we do in Ukraine. If we abandon our friends in
Ukraine, as some want us to do, it will only encourage China to attack our
friends in Taiwan," Haley said.

===== 'Like trying to separate conjoined twins' =====

But the political will to defend Taiwan in a Chinese invasion may clash with
economic forces.

"Almost no one realizes that the Chinese economy and the rest of the global
economy are like conjoined twins. It would be like trying to separate
conjoined twins," Musk told CNBC on Tuesday. "That's the severity of the
situation. And it's actually worse for a lot of other companies than it is
for
Tesla. I mean, I'm not sure where you're going to get an iPhone, for
example."

Some CEOs of America's biggest banks have said they would pull their business
from China if directed to do so following an invasion of Taiwan. But Musk's
characterization of the entangled global economy is no exaggeration — and
much
of the focus has fallen on TSMC.

"If Taiwan were taken out, we would be like severing our brain, because the
world economy will not work without [TSMC] and the chips that come out of
Taiwan today," John Rutledge, chief investment strategist of Safanad, said
Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch" in response to Musk's comments.

David Sacks, a research fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said on
CNBC that Apple is in a "very tough position" because the most advanced chips
it needs are made in a single building on TSMC's campus in Taiwan.

The company's technological edge in the production of semiconductors, which
are used in all manner of products from cars to washing machines, has led to
it being a potential "single point of failure" for many companies, McNeal
said.

But he also noted that the global reliance on TSMC — including by China,
which reportedly depends on the company to provide about 70% of the chips
needed to fuel its electronics industry — could act as a sort of bulwark
against an invasion.

A paper from the Stimson Center on Taiwan's "Silicon Shield" put a fine point
on the issue: "Without a doubt, the first Chinese bomb or rocket that should
fall on the island would make the supply chain impact of the COVID pandemic
seem like a mere hiccup in comparison."

===== CNBC Politics =====

Read more of CNBC's politics coverage:

There are nevertheless efforts underway to diversify the industry
geographically, including through a $40 billion investment to expand TSMC
chip
production in Arizona.

McNeal said the issue should not solely be centered around TSMC and possible
supply chain woes.

"For our Taiwan friends, that message says you don't give a damn about them,
their lives, their safety. You're only in this for what it means for your
bottom line," he said. "For me personally, that's not a message that I want
to
send."

— CNBC's Amanda Macias and Michael Bloom contributed to this report.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
https://www.cnbc.com/2023/05/19/musk-buffett-china-taiwan-2024-election.html

LICENSE: © 2023 CNBC LLC

=========================================


$
[B:t] Musk, Buffett warn about China-Taiwan ahead of 2024 election
