
[1] Read Details

Augmented reality needs an iPhone moment

===== ‘This is the single greatest thing that could happen to this industry.’
=====

By Adi Robertson, a senior tech and policy editor focused on VR, online
platforms, and free expression. Adi has covered video games, biohacking, and
more for The Verge since 2011.

Jun 4, 2023, 1:45 PM UTC| Comments

===== Share this story =====

Apple turned the iPod into a status symbol. A headset might be a taller
order. Photo by Justin Sullivan / Getty Images

As Apple prepares its long-rumored jump into augmented reality on Monday,
doubts have shadowed every step of the way. There are reports of frequent
changes in direction and skepticism inside Apple’s ranks. The device has
allegedly been hard to manufacture and required numerous compromises. The
process has taken years longer than Apple expected. And at a rumored $3,000,
even Apple reportedly expects slow short-term sales.

But among AR professionals, the mood is jubilant. “This is the single
greatest thing that could happen to this industry,” says Jay Wright, CEO of
VR
/ AR collaboration platform Campfire 3D. “Whether you make hardware or
software. We’re excited about it.”

No industry needs Apple’s “it just works” ethos like AR

Building on positive reviews from industry trailblazers like Palmer Luckey,
AR hardware and software makers say Apple can finally validate a decade of
attempts to take the technology mainstream. Some of this optimism is driven
by
Apple’s rumored specs, including a lightweight design and a supposedly
extraordinarily high-spec screen.

Proponents point to Apple’s history of entering a market once other companies
have laid the groundwork, as it did with phones. But much of it can be summed
up in two statements: Apple can sell hardware, and Apple is cool.

No tech category needs Apple’s “it just works” promise more than AR. (This
format is sometimes called “mixed reality” or “XR,” just to underscore how
muddled the consumer pitch is.) Pure consumer VR — while a small market — has
coalesced around relatively popular genres like fitness apps, a few common
storefronts like SteamVR and the Quest store, and a widely used controller
scheme.

AR has no such guarantees.

Its hardware is wildly varied, ranging from bulky headsets with sophisticated
tracking to smart glasses that do little more than show alerts. Its software
is often geared toward hyper-specialized business uses. There’s no settled
consensus on control schemes.

Based on numerous leaks, Apple’s headset uses what’s called “passthrough” AR.
It features high-resolution screens and is capable of running full VR
applications, but it’s also studded by cameras that can pass through a
high-resolution image of the real world — according to rumors, you’ll hit a
“reality dial” to switch between AR and VR. That means it can offer the
illusion of a real world with virtual objects overlaid on it.

Related Meta’s Quest 3 revealed and a WWDC preview | The Vergecast

Passthrough avoids some of the problems that AR glasses like Magic Leap and
Microsoft HoloLens face, like translucent virtual objects and a limited field
of view. Meta, the biggest player in consumer headsets, chose the style for
its Quest Pro design last year. But the Quest Pro had a grainy, washed-out
video feed and offered limited practical applications for its AR mode. A
virtual office, for instance, required a convoluted syncing process with your
Mac or PC. And Meta has generally focused on the lower end of the VR and AR
market — it’s also including passthrough as a selling point on the upcoming
$499 Quest 3.

By contrast, multiple people speculated that Apple’s headset could be like
the Tesla Roadster: a flashy, expensive sports car that sold people on the
concept of electric vehicles. “Apple makes devices in a way that are actually
useful and comfortable to people and make people care about it,” says Jacob
Loewenstein, SVP of 3D social platform Spatial, which has appeared on
numerous
AR and VR devices.

“There’s going to be so much garbage out there, and there’s going to be some
cool stuff, too.”

The exact uses of Apple’s rumored tech aren’t known yet. CEO Tim Cook has
said AR is for “communication” and “connection,” and it will reportedly
feature FaceTime capability that can render a person’s face and body. It’s
said to also offer access to iPad apps, games, entertainment via Apple’s TV
app, and a version of Apple Fitness Plus. “One of the reasons why I think
Apple is immensely successful in many of their ventures is they’re not just
launching a device, they’re launching an ecosystem,” says Gartner analyst
Tuong Nguyen, who covers the VR / AR market. “It’s that combination of
different applications applied to different use cases for different users —
that is the ‘killer app.’”

Apple reportedly isn’t expecting a large early market for the device — it’s
revised its expectations downward to under a million units a year, compared
to
200 million or more iPhones. Still, despite the device’s rumored cost, some
predict a gold rush of app designers trying to replicate the success of early
iPhone developers. “I’ve been like, wait, why am I not making some goofy
version of some application that everyone likes — like, being one of the
first
to-do apps on the Apple headset?” says Gabe Baker, VP of browser-based VR
collaboration platform Frame. “There’s going to be so much garbage out there,
and there’s going to be some cool stuff, too — it’s going to be a fun time.”

Related Apple’s mixed reality headset: all the reports about the rumored AR /
VR headset A short history of every time Apple CEO Tim Cook praised augmented
reality WWDC 2023: what to expect and how to watch Apple’s Worldwide
Developers Conference

Apple has an ambivalent relationship with web developers, who form a niche
but notable subset of the AR / VR industry. Safari has badly lagged at
supporting WebXR, a common standard for browser-based immersive experiences,
on iOS. But the browser is reportedly launching on its headset, which will
put
web-based AR in the spotlight. “We’re cautiously optimistic that Apple will
actually make Safari a viable application on their upcoming hardware,” says
Baker. “Meta has shown that the web browser can actually be a vehicle for
high
quality immersive content, hands-down, and I think Apple will want that on
their headset.”

The iPhone’s decade-plus dominance has demonstrated plenty of downsides to
“it just works.” Apple has mastered the walled garden, and many app
developers
who work inside it aren’t happy with the results. It’s spent years fighting
some prominent developers like Epic and Match Group in court, and others have
testified in Congress about having their apps locked down and undercut by
Apple’s own copycats.

Apple is still pushing into a field that’s bested some of the biggest
companies in tech

But for AR and VR developers, the alternative to an Apple walled garden may
be a desert. Many apps — particularly non-gaming ones — have pivoted onto
more
conventional computing devices as one headset after another has failed to
capture a consumer market. A key exception has been Meta, which has defied
expectations with its Quest 2 for VR. That’s raised the opposite problem: a
system where some developers and regulators worry Meta could monopolize the
nascent industry, and some competing hardware companies have expressed
irritation at the Quest’s rock-bottom, ad-subsidized prices.

“I think the other thing that’s compelling is the arms race that it starts
between Meta and Apple. We’ve never really had these two titans go head to
head before on a new platform,” says Loewenstein. And even for hardware
makers, Apple’s entry isn’t necessarily a bad thing — the AR glasses market
is
small enough that any new attention to the space is welcome.

Despite the excitement inside the industry, Apple is still pushing into a
field that has bested some of the biggest companies in tech. Google and
Microsoft have both debuted AR headsets with flashy consumer-friendly
applications (in Microsoft’s case, an AR edition of Minecraft) only to end up
with a far less ambitious enterprise-focused product. So has the lavishly
funded startup Magic Leap.

Moreover, few people seem to think passthrough AR is an endpoint for the
medium. As Nguyen points out, a passthrough headset poses basic safety risks
compared to a more glasses-like system: if its video feed stutters or goes
dark, it temporarily blinds the user. That makes it risky to use outside a
controlled home or office environment. “I see the Apple device as being a
replacement of my iMac,” says Nima Shams, VP at DigiLens, a longtime maker of
optics for glasses-style headsets. “I don’t see the device being a
replacement
of my iPhone.” Apple has reportedly been working on a transparent,
non-passthrough headset, too — but it’s not what anyone expects to see on
Monday.

There are pragmatic reasons to believe Apple’s better positioned than these
companies. For one thing, the tech has matured significantly since Google
started testing Glass in 2012, Microsoft announced HoloLens in 2015, and
Magic
Leap revealed its first product in 2018. For another, Apple has a consumer
hardware track record that virtually no other company can match. That
includes
not only carefully produced industrial design and interfaces like trackpads
but, in recent years, its own fairly powerful chips. “If we were facing
rumors
of a similar headset made by someone not Apple, I don’t think it would be all
that successful,” says IDC research manager Jitesh Ubrani. “Apple has huge
scale, huge developer support, huge consumer support — and no one else comes
even close to that.”

But the most emotionally compelling argument is simply that Apple can make
even weird-looking products — like AirPods, compared to everything from
Q-tips
to sperm — socially acceptable. As Loewenstein puts it, “the key has always
been very, very simple: is this thing useful? Is this thing comfortable? And
is this thing cool?” Meta has demonstrated VR’s value for games, but the
company’s uncoolness is a running joke, from the famous picture of an MWC
audience strapped into headsets to CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s much-maligned
legless
avatar. “I think Apple has the cool factor.”

And if it doesn’t? Well, if you’ve stuck around the world of consumer AR for
this long, you can probably handle disappointment.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.theverge.com/2023/6/4/23747110/apple-headset-augmented-reality-vr-industry-rumors-wwdc-2023

LICENSE: © 2023 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved

=========================================


$
[B:t] Apple’s Reality Pro headset could make augmented reality cool - The Verge
